Homework 02
Brother Twitchell, CS 273
Brother Michael Carey


Internet Jargon and Definitions

100 points

Expand acronyms, if appropriate, and briefly define the following terms (as
they relate to the Internet). State the source(s) of your definitions. Submit
as a text file (with the work log in the same file).

1. applet - A program designed to be executed from within another application.
Unlike an application, applets cannot be executed directly from the operating
system. With the growing popularity of OLE (object linking and embedding),
applets are becoming more prevalent. A well-designed applet can be invoked
from many different applications.

2. CGI - Abbreviation of Common Gateway Interface, a specification for
transferring information between a World Wide Web server and a CGI program.
A CGI program is any program designed to accept and return data that conforms
to the CGI specification. The program could be written in any programming
language, including C, Perl, Java, or Visual Basic.

3. client - The client part of a client-server architecture. Typically, a
client is an application that runs on a personal computer or workstation
and relies on a server to perform some operations. For example, an e-mail
client is an application that enables you to send and receive e-mail.

4. DHTML - Dynamic Hyper Text Markup Language 
(1) Refers to Web content that changes each time it is viewed.
For example, the same URL could result in a different page depending on any
number of parameters, such as:

 Geographic location of the reader
 Time of day
 Previous pages viewed by the reader
 Profile of the reader

There are many technologies for producing dynamic HTML, including CGI
scripts, Server-Side Includes (SSI), cookies, Java, JavaScript, and ActiveX.

(2) When capitalized, Dynamic HTML refers to new HTML extensions that will
enable a Web page to react to user input without sending requests to the Web
server. Microsoft and Netscape have submitted competing Dynamic HTML proposals
to W3C, which is producing the final specification.

5. DNS - (1) Short for Domain Name System (or Service), an Internet service
that translates domain names into IP addresses. Because domain names are
alphabetic, they're easier to remember. The Internet however, is really
based on IP addresses. Every time you use a domain name, therefore, a DNS
service must translate the name into the corresponding IP address. For example,
the domain name www.example.com might translate to 198.105.232.4.
The DNS system is, in fact, its own network. If one DNS server doesn't know
how to translate a particular domain name, it asks another one, and so on,
until the correct IP address is returned.

(2) Short for digital nervous system, a term coined by Bill Gates to describe
a network of personal computers that make it easier to obtain and understand
information.

6. ethernet - A local-area network (LAN) architecture developed by Xerox
Corporation in cooperation with DEC and Intel in 1976. Ethernet uses a bus or
star topology and supports data transfer rates of 10 Mbps. The Ethernet
specification served as the basis for the IEEE 802.3 standard, which specifies
the physical and lower software layers. Ethernet uses the CSMA/CD access
method to handle simultaneous demands. It is one of the most widely
implemented LAN standards.

A newer version of Ethernet, called 100Base-T (or Fast Ethernet), supports
data transfer rates of 100 Mbps. And the newest version, Gigabit Ethernet
supports data rates of 1 gigabit (1,000 megabits) per second.

7. FTP - Abbreviation of File Transfer Protocol, the protocol used on the
Internet for sending files.

8. gopher - A system that pre-dates the World Wide Web for organizing and
displaying files on Internet servers. A Gopher server presents its contents
as a hierarchically structured list of files. With the ascendance of the Web,
many gopher databases were converted to Web sites which can be more easily
accessed via Web search engines. Gopher was developed at the University of
Minnesota and named after the school's mascot. Two systems, Veronica and
Jughead, let you search global indices of resources stored in Gopher systems.

9. HTML - Short for Hyper Text Markup Language, the authoring language used to
create documents on the World Wide Web. HTML is similar to SGML, although it
is not a strict subset.

HTML defines the structure and layout of a Web document by using a variety
of tags and attributes. The correct structure for an HTML document starts
with <HTML><HEAD>(enter here what document is about)</HEAD><BODY> and ends
with </BODY></HTML>. All the information you'd like to include in your Web
page fits in between the <BODY> and </BODY> tags. There are hundreds of other
tags used to format and layout the information in a Web page. Tags are also
used to specify hypertext links. These allow Web developers to direct users
to other Web pages with only a click of the mouse on either an image or
word(s). For a more complete list of tags, check out some of the URLs below.

10. HTTP - Short for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol, the underlying protocol
used by the World Wide Web. HTTP defines how messages are formatted and
transmitted, and what actions Web servers and browsers should take in response
to various commands. For example, when you enter a URL in your browser, this
actually sends an HTTP command to the Web server directing it to fetch and
transmit the requested Web page.

The other main standard that controls how the World Wide Web works is HTML,
which covers how Web pages are formatted and displayed. HTTP is called a
stateless protocol because each command is executed independently, without
any knowledge of the commands that came before it. This is the main reason
that it is difficult to implement Web sites that react intelligently to user
input. This shortcoming of HTTP is being addressed in a number of new
technologies, including ActiveX, Java, JavaScript and cookies.

11. IP address - Internet Protocol Address
An identifier for a computer or device on a TCP/IP network.
Networks using the TCP/IP protocol route messages based on the IP address of
the destination. The format of an IP address is a 32-bit numeric address
written as four numbers separated by periods. Each number can be zero to 255.
For example, 1.160.10.240 could be an IP address.
Within an isolated network, you can assign IP addresses at random as long as
each one is unique. However, connecting a private network to the Internet
requires using registered IP addresses (called Internet addresses) to avoid
duplicates.

The four numbers in an IP address are used in different ways to identify a
particular network and a host on that network. Three regional Internet
registries -- ARIN, RIPE NCC and APNIC -- assign Internet addresses from
the following three classes.

 Class A - supports 16 million hosts on each of 127 networks
 Class B - supports 65,000 hosts on each of 16,000 networks
 Class C - supports 254 hosts on each of 2 million networks

The number of unassigned Internet addresses is running out, so a new classless
scheme called CIDR is gradually replacing the system based on classes A, B,
and C and is tied to adoption of IPv6.

12. MIME - Short for Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions, a specification
for formatting non-ASCII messages so that they can be sent over the Internet.
Many e-mail clients now support MIME, which enables them to send and receive
graphics, audio, and video files via the Internet mail system. In addition,
MIME supports messages in character sets other than ASCII.
There are many predefined MIME types, such as GIF graphics files and PostScript
files. It is also possible to define your own MIME types. In addition to e-mail
applications, Web browsers also support various MIME types. This enables the
browser to display or output files that are not in HTML format.
MIME was defined in 1992 by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). A new
version, called S/MIME, supports encrypted messages.

13. ping - A utility to determine whether a specific IP address is accessible.
It works by sending a packet to the specified address and waiting for a reply.
PING is used primarily to troubleshoot Internet connections. There are many
freeware and shareware Ping utilities available for personal computers. It is
often believed that " Ping" is an abbreviation for Packet Internet Groper, but
Ping 's author has stated that the names comes from the sound that a sonar
makes.

14. router - A device that forwards data packets along networks. A router is
connected to at least two networks, commonly two LANs or WANs or a LAN and its
ISPs network. Routers are located at gateways, the places where two or more
networks connect.
Routers use headers and forwarding tables to determine the best path for
forwarding the packets, and they use protocols such as ICMP to communicate
with each other and configure the best route between any two hosts. Very
little filtering of data is done through routers.

15. SSL - Short for Secure Sockets Layer, a protocol developed by Netscape for
transmitting private documents via the Internet. SSL works by using a public
key to encrypt data that's transferred over the SSL connection. Both Netscape
Navigator and Internet Explorer support SSL, and many Web sites use the
protocol to obtain confidential user information, such as credit card
numbers. By convention, URLs that require an SSL connection start with
https: instead of http:.

Another protocol for transmitting data securely over the World Wide Web is
Secure HTTP (S-HTTP). Whereas SSL creates a secure connection between a
client and a server, over which any amount of data can be sent securely,
S-HTTP is designed to transmit individual messages securely. SSL and S-HTTP,
therefore, can be seen as complementary rather than competing technologies.
Both protocols have been approved by the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF) as a standard.

16. SGML - Short for Standard Generalized Markup Language, a system for
organizing and tagging elements of a document. SGML was developed and
standardized by the International Organization for Standards (ISO) in 1986.
SGML itself does not specify any particular formatting; rather, it specifies
the rules for tagging elements. These tags can then be interpreted to format
elements in different ways.

SGML is used widely to manage large documents that are subject to frequent
revisions and need to be printed in different formats. Because it is a large
and complex system, it is not yet widely used on personal computers. However,
the growth of Internet, and especially the World Wide Web, is creating renewed
interest in SGML because the World Wide Web uses HTML, which is one way of
defining and interpreting tags according to SGML rules.

17. server - A computer or device on a network that manages network resources.
For example, a file server is a computer and storage device dedicated to
storing files. Any user on the network can store files on the server. A print
server is a computer that manages one or more printers, and a network server
is a computer that manages network traffic. A database server is a computer
system that processes database queries. Servers are often dedicated, meaning
that they perform no other tasks besides their server tasks.

On multiprocessing operating systems, however, a single computer can execute
several programs at once. A server in this case could refer to the program
that is managing resources rather than the entire computer.

18. servlet - A Java application that runs in a Web server or application
server and provides server-side processing

19. T1 - A dedicated phone connection supporting data rates of 1.544Mbits
per second. A T-1 line actually consists of 24 individual channels, each of
which supports 64Kbits per second. Each 64Kbit/second channel can be
configured to carry voice or data traffic. Most telephone companies allow
you to buy just some of these individual channels, known as fractional T-1
access.

T-1 lines are a popular leased line option for businesses connecting to the
Internet and for Internet Service Providers (ISPs) connecting to the Internet
backbone. The Internet backbone itself consists of faster T-3 connections.
T-1 lines are sometimes referred to as DS1 lines.

20. TCP/IP - Abbreviation for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol,
the suite of communications protocols used to connect hosts on the Internet.
TCP/IP uses several protocols, the two main ones being TCP and IP. TCP/IP is
built into the UNIX operating system and is used by the Internet, making it the
de facto standard for transmitting data over networks. Even network operating
systems that have their own protocols, such as Netware, also support TCP/IP.

21. telnet - Abbrevation for Telecommunications Network. A terminal emulation 
program for TCP/IP networks such as the Internet. The Telnet program runs on 
your computer and connects your PC to a server on the network. You can then 
enter commands through the Telnet program and they will be executed as if 
you were entering them directly on the server console. This enables you to 
control the server and communicate with other servers on the network. To 
start a Telnet session, you must log in to a server by entering a valid 
username and password. Telnet is a common way to remotely control Web servers.

22. traceroute - A utility that traces a packet from your
computer to an Internet host, showing how many hops the packet requires to
reach the host and how long each hop takes. If you're visiting a Web site and
pages are appearing slowly, you can use traceroute to figure out where the
longest delays are occurring.

The original traceroute is a UNIX utility, but nearly all platforms have
something similar. Windows includes a traceroute utility called tracert. In
Windows 95, you can run tracert by selecting Start->Run, and then entering
tracert followed by the domain name of the host. For example:

tracert www.pcwebopedia.com

Traceroute utilities work by sending packets with low time-to-live (TTL)
fields. The TTL value specifies how many hops the packet is allowed before
it is returned. When a packet can't reach its destination because the TTL
value is too low, the last host returns the packet and identifies itself.
By sending a series of packets and incrementing the TTL value with each
successive packet, traceroute finds out who all the intermediary hosts are.

23. W3C - Short for World Wide Web Consortium, an international consortium
of companies involved with the Internet and the Web. The W3C was founded in
1994 by Tim Berners-Lee, the original architect of the World Wide Web. The
organization's purpose is to develop open standards so that the Web evolves
in a single direction rather than being splintered among competing factions.

24. XHTML - Short for Extensible Hypertext Markup Language, a hybrid between
HTML and XML specifically designed for Net device displays.

XHTML is a markup language written in XML; therefore, it is an XML application.

XHTML uses three XML namespaces (used to qualify element and attributes names
by associating them with namespaces identified by URI references. Namespaces
prevent identically custom-named tags that may be used in different XML
documents from being read the same way), which correspond to three HTML
4.0 DTDs: Strict, Transitional, and Frameset.

XHTML markup must conform to the markup standards defined in a HTML DTD. When
applied to Net devices, XHTML must go through a modularization process. This
enables XHTML pages to be read by many different platforms. A device designer,
using standard building blocks, will specify which elements are supported.
Content creators will then target these building blocks--or modules. Because
these modules conform to certain standards, XHTML's extensibility ensures that
layout and presentation stay true-to-form over any platform.

25. XML - Short for Extensible Markup Language, a specification developed by
the W3C. XML is a pared-down version of SGML, designed especially for Web
documents. It allows designers to create their own customized tags, enabling
the definition, transmission, validation, and interpretation of data between
applications and between organizations.

All sources were found at http://www.pcwebopedia.com
Except for 21 which was found at http://www.techweb.com/encyclopedia
Aditional source was found for Telent at http://www.acronymfinder.com
