Homework 03
Brother Twitchell, CS273
Brother Michael Carey


1. Why will we run out of IP addresses? 

   Problem of Ipv4
   As the specifications of IPv4 have become old, the problems are mainly the following 
three points.

   1. Shortage of Internet Protocol address 
   Because IPv4 is 32 bits, it has about 4,300,000,000 address space in a decimal number. 
This amount is absolutely insufficient for the Internet world wide because it is smaller 
than the population of the world. According to calculations by IETF in 1994, that will 
exhaust the addresses in about year 2008 +/- 3. However, the greater effect or loss of
Internet addresses is not entirly due to the fact the there are only 4.3 billion 
different IP addresses available. It is due more in part on the poor method 
used to distribute IP addresses. Stating in fact to Class A, B, C, and D type networks.
CIDR is an attempt to help reclame some of this network addressing space.

   2. Rapid increase of routing information 
   When the number of organizations connected to the Internet increases, the memory and 
route information increases too. It puts the burden on the router which forwards the 
packet, resulting as increased memory and decrease at the look-up speed. This could be 
a fatal problem for a router with little capacity.

   3. Destruction of End-to-end communication
   The end-to-end communication is destroyed by Network Address Translator (NAT) which 
was introduced to ease the shortage of addresses. Therefore, new application 
developments became less feasible. 


2. What has been done to solve this problem?
   Do to the shortage of IP’s companies and educational institutions have gotten together 
to develop some potential solutions for this growing problem. The two main developments 
of NAT and CIDR have assisted in extending the life of the current IP addressing scheme. 
IPv6 is the next generation IP protocol which will allow every computer or electronic 
device to have its own IP address.


3. Include a discussion of IPv6, CIDR, and NAT.

   The creation of Network Address Translation or NAT was to help deal with the growing 
number of networks being connected on the internet. However NAT has one major flaw which 
is that the communication layers were originally designed for asynchronous communication 
where as with NAT all communication must by synchronous or unidirectional.

   In assisting with correcting the problem of the finite address space found on the 
Internet IPv6 has been developed and is in the process of replacing IPv4. However IPv6 
has gained in popularity but its adoption has still been slow. In terms of address space, 
IPv4 is about 4.3 x 10^9, being 32 bits. On the other hand, Ipv6 becomes the astronomical 
figure of 3.4 x 10^38 because its length is 128 bits.

   Classless Inter-Domain Routing or CIDR is another method that was developed to help 
alleviate the diminishing IPv4 addresses. However it’s main focus is in the dividing 
of the current resources into more appropriate sub blocks or classes. In this way it 
would function more like the current telephone network system. Each address space would 
only need to recognize its highest level address and pass it on to the next highest. 
This also reduces the major load of internet addresses stored in most routing tables. 
Which is around 35000 entries. CIDR has helped greatly as it enabled the internet the 
ability to keep growing past 1994. This is because the theoretical limit to routing 
tables is about 60000 entries. CIDR is still limited in that it does not resolve the 
diminishing number of IPv4 addresses and only helps manage what we already have 
available to us.

4. What are the advantages of each of these solutions? 
   NAT has allowed the growth of the internet to continue by providing a way to handle 
computers from with in a network to communicate out side the network by using the same 
IP. This is a temporary solution to the growing IP shortage problems on the net.

   IPv6 will allow the number of individual IP addresses to be increased in order of 
magnitude. This will allow an address space that will not be impeded by population 
growth for a very long time. It will also allow every computer, appliance, car, cell 
phone on the planet to have its own unique IP address. 

   IPv6 utilizes CIDR routing technology and CIDR notation in the same way as IPv4. IPv6 
is designed for fully classless addressing.

   CIDR is a method developed to help balance the network load across the entire Internet. 
This allows routers to only handle the routing information that directly affects their 
subnet. This is similar to how the phone company handles call routing. The high level 
network only handles the country code, then it breaks off to the area code, and then to 
the city code and then to the actual unique phone number id. Each part is broken off at 
its appropriate level. The high level trunk does not need to even know what the unique 
phone number is and so it does not have to deal with that data execpt to pass on the
data to the next more localized router to the destination.


5. What are the disadvantages of each of these solutions? 
   NAT and CIDR are both temporary solutions for the growing IP shortage, except in the 
case of CIDR for IPv6.
The main disadvantage for IPv6 is that it will simply take time for the new IP methodology
to be fully implemented across all platforms and applications that will eventually require
the IPv6 technology.

6. Do you think any of these solutions will be implemented within the next five years? 
Why or why not?

NAT and CIDR are all ready in place and assisting in PC to PC communications over networks.
IPv6 on the other hand is currently being used in some companies and on the Internet 
backbone. It is being tested and has been shown to be quite reliable. IPv6 is already 
here however and its popularity has not grown extremely fast. Also every application 
that supports IPv4 must be upgraded to handle the new protocol. Many large companies 
have written support for this new protocol, however it is simply a matter of time 
before IPv6 is widely used. I believe that IPv6 will be used more as the eminent IP 
shortage is not going away. IPv6 is already available on the latest versions of Windows 
and Windows servers as well as many other platforms, so in the next 5 years we will 
certainly see the growth of IPv6.

Questions 1, 2, 3
   Source: http://www.wide.ad.jp/wg/finish/014_ipv6.html

Questions 2, 3
   Source: http://public.pacbell.net/dedicated/cidr.html

Questions 4
   Source: http://compnetworking.about.com/library/weekly/aa021003a.htm
